[MUSIC PLAYING]

Welcome back.
It's Aaron Katz again.
In this video, we're covering why to use animations.
The user experience is just as important as the site itself.
If you don't think about what the user will interact with at a site,
you might build a really bad site.
So no need to write any code for this video-- just
sit back, relax, and get ready to learn.
The first thing we need to do is talk about what the user will do.
What information are you trying to convey
to the user, such as having a button that pulsates when the user will hover
over it or if there's a check box in the form for correcting information,
changing the outline of the box with red so people know that it's incorrect?
So if someone's hovering over a button and it's pulsating,
this just tells the user that you want them to press it.
If they submit a form-- and we all submit forms and hit a button--
and there's an error on it, then a red outline
lets the user know without having to think too much about it
that here's where your mistake is.
You should also think about what changes to the UI
happen as a result of the user clicking on the button.
So if you have a pop-up that has an "x" in the upper corner,
the user knows that if they click on this, it'll close the pop-up.
An on or off toggle also changes what's on the screen.
This way, the user knows that you're turning something on or off.
Think about on your phone when you're turning the Wi-Fi on and off.
It's an on and off toggle.
So you know that when it's on, it's searching for Wi-Fi.
When it's off, it's not searching for Wi-Fi.
Also, if you use highlights to tell the user what information is important,
such as a pulsing ball or a button that shakes,
it's a good way to get the user attention
and let them know what's important, what you want them to see on the page.
Letting the user know the system status is also very important.
It takes time for data to be sent to the database and respond.
A loading bar or a little spinner lets the user
know that something is loading.
I like using the loading bar a little bit better, because it moves.
So it lets the user feel like something is happening.
Without it, the user doesn't know if the site is working.
So they might press Submit again.
They might get aggravated and leave the site.
So another example is at my old job, we used Slack a lot to communicate.
And I have an image of myself inside of the little black screen.
So when I'm talking to someone, the edge of the picture
has these little waves on them that move around.
And that lets me know if someone's talking.
There have been a couple of times where I've had my volume down,
and I wasn't able to hear someone.
But I see those, and I'm able to realize that I have to turn my volume up.
Hope you learned about when to use animations.
If you want to learn more, Mozilla has some great development documentation
on everything we covered here today.
Happy coding.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
