
[MUSIC PLAYING]

Welcome back.
It's Aaron Katz again.
In this video, we're going to introduce animations and how to use them.
At this point, you may have learned about using jQuery
to move your HTML elements.
Well, you can do the same thing using CSS.
Let's start by understanding a little bit about animations.
Animations make it possible to transition from one to another.
Animations have two parts, the style describing the animations
and the key frames that indicate the start and the end of the style.
When you use animations, there can be up to eight parameters.
You start with the name of the key frame that you're going to use.
Think of it as calling a function in JavaScript.
The duration is how long you want the animation to take place.
The timing is how you want the transition to look.
It could jump or be at ease.
You can also add in a delay, how many iterations you want, directions,
fill mode and play-state state.
I opened this up in code pen, and you can tell this URL right
up here if you want to type that in.
I have it saved so you can play around with my code.
Couple of things you want to do, you might want to do.
So if the JS box is open, you can close it
by clicking on this button on the JS box and clicking that minimize JS editor.
You're also going to want to use Sass.
So click on this widget, and right over here it says SCSS, Sass right here.
So you can use this, and you save and close.
And that should take care of that.
In our HTML, we're going to create a box.
So right over here, a div with a class of box.
And then in our CSS, we're going to create a box with a background of red,
a height and a width of 100, and a position of relative.

So it should have a nice little box like that right there.
So this really doesn't do much.
So let's create an animation right here where we're going to call it my frames.
So we know that when we use a key frame, it's going to call my frames.
Two seconds, so the animation will take two seconds.
And it's going to ease in and out.
Zero seconds, so if we want to put a delay,
we can change that to one second, so there's a delay.
And infinite just means it goes on an infinite loop,
that it will happen forever.
So we have to create a key frame rate down here.
And there are a couple of different ways you can do the key frame.
So the key frame with the name of it is going to be the same.
But you see how I have 0 and 50 and 100.
You can do start and finish, or you can do a specific for percentage.
So you can start at 100.
You can start at zero, move to 20, then 40, then 60, then 80 if you want.

So right now, at 0%, we want the height to be
at 100, which is what it is right now.
So we'll save that, and nothing changes.
And let's say we want at the end for the height
to be 600 and the background to be green.
So if we press save, you see how this is growing right here,
and it changes to green.
Well let's say we want to do something in the middle.
So in the middle, we can have the width be 200.
So now when it starts, see how it goes out and comes back in.
The with expands to 200, and then it goes back to 100.
Now, if we want to leave the width like that, we can just do comma 100.
And see now how it just expands, and then it goes back.
So if you want to keep that width for the rest of the time,
you just do comma and then how long you want it to stay for.
Hope you learned about animations and how they work.
If you want to learn more, Mozilla has some great development documentation
on everything we covered today.
Happy coding.
