[MUSIC PLAYING]
Welcome back.
It's Aaron Katz again.
In today's lesson, we will cover transitions and how to use them.
At this point, you may have learned using jQuery
how to move your HTML elements.
Well, you can also use your CSS to move your HTML.
Let's start by understanding a little bit about what transitions are.
If you want to change a color from black to white,
the change will be instantaneous.
But with transitions, you get to control the speed of the color change.
When you use transitions, there are four parameters you use:
the transition property, the transition duration, the timing, and the delay.
The property in this case is going to be transform.
The duration is how long you want the animation to take place.
The timing is how you want the transition to look.
It can jump or be at ease.
The first two parameters are required; the second two are optional.
The transform property is where the transition will take place.
So right now let's start by taking a look at our code.
I open up CodePen and you can see the link at the top of my page right here.
It's saved in case you want to use it.
I'm also using SCSS and minimizing the JS screen.
So to minimize the JS screen, if you click on JS,
you're going to see this minimize JS editor.
You're going to click on that.
And for SCSS you're going to click on that little widget button
and right here where it says, CSS preprocessor,
you're going to hit the down button, click on SCSS, and save and close.
So once you do that, everything should be already setup.
Know in our HTML we're going to create two classes.
On the outside we're going to have the trigger class, and on the inside
we're going to have the box class.

The reason why we're doing this is so when a user hovers over trigger,
the box would move.
Without the outer box, the transition will look a little jittery
because the animation will follow the mouse.
So if you keep that-- when you transition over it, the box will move,
and it'll stop right around here because your mouse no longer covers the box.
But trigger, you can just leave your mouse right there.
Next thing we're going to do is we're going to go into our CSS
and we are going to create a box.
So we're going to create the box and it is
going to be a display inline, a background of red,
and we're going to make it width of 100 pixels, the height of 100 pixels.
And we'll go into this transition thing in a little bit.

So right now he should have this little box.
Not very exciting.
Not much that it does.
But let's take a look at this transition.
So we have transform, which if we go down here, we see transform.
It's kind of like a function call, almost.
You're saying, OK, this transition is going
to wait for this transform to call, and it's going to take 300 milliseconds.
You can use seconds, you can use milliseconds, you
could use as much time as you want.
And ease so it transitions smoothly.
Now we're going to trigger the element basically on the hover.
So it's going to be trigger and then this colon and hover.
If you remember from CSS, this is when you add something
so if you do something to the element, it knows how to react.
So trigger: hover and box.
And then we're going to transform.
We're going to translate it, meaning we're
going to move it 200 pixels down and 150 pixels across while rotating it
20 degrees.
So we're going to save it.
And then when we hover over it, it kind of disappears.
Let's move that up.
You see how it kind of moves a little bit, right?
And then you go up and it hovers back.
Now if we get rid of trigger and save, it's
acting a little funky when you get over it.
And that's why you want that box there, so it transitions smoother.
See?
That looks much nicer.
Hope you learned about transitions and how they work.
If you want to learn more Mozilla has some great development documentation
on everything we covered today.
Happy coding.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
